Transaction management ensures data consistency and integrity.
The ability to properly manage transactions is essential to
enterprise application development because most enterprise apps
almost always persist data to a database.
Without transaction management,
data could end up in an inconsistent state and become corrupted.
To understand the importance of the transaction,
think of a common example, buying an airline ticket online using a credit card.
In an online airline ticket booking system,
a booking may consist of two separate actions that
together form a single transaction,
paying for the seat and then reserving a seat,
and removing it from inventory for the customer that just paid.
Now think of the situation where the amount is charged to the
credit card but a seat is never reserved nor confirmed for the
passenger due to a system error.
The data is left in an inconsistent state.
The booking transaction should use transaction management so that both
steps are performed as a single unit of work and all complete entirely as
a group or fail as a group and are rolled back.
In this scenario,
setting the correct boundaries for the transaction is important.
When should a transactions start?
When should a transaction end?
When should the transaction be committed to the database?
And when should data be rolled back in the case of exception?
Without transaction management, your data would be left in an inconsistent state.
We are lucky that Spring provides transaction management support.
In a typical environment, there are two types of transactions, global and local.
Global transactions are used when multiple resources manage the
transactions and are typically managed by the application server,
allowing for access to multiple resources like message queues,
relational databases, etc.
Local transactions are typically associated with a specific resource like,
say, a JDBC connection, and this resource manages the transaction. Local transactions don't typically run in a global environment.